Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to iterate over our character codes.
All right, so we have successfully created the programme logic that we want now whenever we get our
character codes, what we want is we want to store them inside an array and then we can grab the items
within those within that array and we can apply a string method to it to convert them into a string.
So let's call our new array is going to be password characters.
And originally we are going to set it to an empty array.
And now let's go ahead and let's loop over our items.
So let's create the little variable.
This time I'm going to call it H.
It is going to start from zero and H is going to go all the way to less than our character amount that
we have created right here.
So this character amount, this this is the character element that I'm talking about.
Right.
It grabs the number of characters value, which is this number value that we have here.
This number value.
It is going to grab this.
All right.
And it is going to go all the way to the amount of that to less than the amount of that, to less than
that.
And each time we are going to grab our H and we are going to incremented by one.
Right.
So in here, what I want to do is whenever this loop, this very this loop loops over this character
amount, I want to store that inside another variable.
So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to create a variable called character code.
Do not confuse this character code with this char code that we have created here.
This Charcot's, it grabs all the codes from that reference that we saw.
And if they are collect, it is just going to concatenate it to the lowercase character code that we
have.
But this is just responsible for holding a random number.
Where does that random number comes?
It comes from our character codes that we have created here.
Remember, this character code is still going to return to us a number.
It is not going to give us a letter that we want.
OK, it's not going to give us an alphabet.
Now, the way that we can grab an alphabet is actually another method that we are going to cover in
this video as well.
So I'm just going to go ahead and open up brackets and whatever I write inside here is going to is going
to replace this RELU variable.
So the little variables value is going to be is going to come here and it is going to be positive.
So to create a random number of first off, we call in a math that Flora in math, we would grab our
math object and we call the floor method, which returns the greatest integer less than or equal to
its numeric argument, because the math, that number, it is going to return values from zero to one,
which are decimal, but we want like whole integers.
So that's why we are going to use math that floor.
And inside there, we are going to call in our math object once more and we are going to say random.
All right.
So we're so because this random is going to give us like from zero to one and this floor is just going
to go ahead.
And Floret.
Right.
What is the number of what is the number that we want it to be a random by that.
We usually pass in here a number and that number is going to be our character codes, the length.
So as long or as many characters that we have in our character codes that many times this is going to
give us a random number.
So let's let's the stick and let's talk about an example.
For example, if you have numbers from one to five, it is going to give you five different random numbers.
So, for example, it's going to be five is going to be three is going to be four, is going to be two
is going to be one.
So five different variations of that random number that we want.
And as many numbers are inside, this character codes that length.
That's why it is going to give us the number.
It is going to random, make our password random by those many times.
All right.
So at this point, we have successfully grabbed the random number that we want now.
And that random number is, of course, always going to be associated with one with one of these letters,
either uppercase, lowercase symbol or number.
Right.
So it is going to be associated with that.
That's why we have used our character codes are Charcot's.
The Charcot's value is going to come from here, which is initially lowercase numbers, but.
If numbers are also click, the Charcot's is going to concatenated numbers as well, and the same goes
for symbols and the same goes for uppercase.
Now that we have successfully stored this these numbers inside this character code, let's put this
character code to good use.
So we are going to grab our material that we have just created here.
We are going to say password characters, Dot Poche.
We are going to add items to an array through the push method.
Now, this is the method that is going to give us a string that from Char Code is going to give us actual
letters from character codes.
So up until this point, what we had was we had only numbers which are of course associated with letters
like these numbers.
Now, how can we convert those letters so those numbers into actual letters?
And that is where this from char code method method it comes in.
And where where does it take its reference from?
It is going to take its reference from our character codes, character code, character codes.
You know, I'm just going to miscall a character character codes.
So it is going to grab it from right here.
Let's save it.
So now that we have successfully iterated over that, first off, let's go ahead on this concept.
A lock, not time out, time lock log.
Let's see what it is going to give us.
So let's grab our array.
Let's save it.
Let's come here, here and now.
Let's click on this.
We get a Y so we get an an uppercase letter, OK, even though it has not been clicked.
So this should not do this.
Let's keep clicking.
Oh, we can see that we get all of them, so we get a symbol, we get an upper case, we get do we have
a number?
This is oh yeah.
That is.
Oh, so this is a no, this is again a symbol.
So we get all of them because iterates over all of them.
And this if statement has not come into effect yet.
So what we are going to do is we are going to pass these numbers inside this this MTA right now, this
MTA has numbers.
Now let's go ahead.
And these numbers, they are passed inside this array, but we want to convert them.
As you can see here, this is an array.
We do not want to show the user an array.
The arrays for developers, the users should see a string.
So let's convert the array items into a string.
We are going to say a return password.
Characters dot join and we are what do we want and what do we want them to join?
And it is going to be an empty string.
So let's go ahead and let's click.
And it does not present to this display, and I think I know what the problem is, we have not selected
our display.
So where is our display?
I'm just going to grab the I.D. There is actually one last step remaining and this is going to be it.
So we are going to say pass word display.
We should update the password display as well.
We do not want to show the users the the password inside the console.
We want to show them like inside the HTML, inside the Web page.
So let's select it.
And we are going to come inside our event listener.
And at the end of it, we are going to grab our password display.
You remember that the result of this generate function, the result of this entire generate function,
is going to be saved inside this password variable.
And we are going to grab our password display.
And Dot enter text and we are going to set it to password, let's save it click.
So now we get an F C, we get an F, we get an eye for B, we should not be able to we should not get
to like this.
J, we should get only lowercase letters.
And when we get so let's go ahead and let's increase it to like twenty one click we get everything which
I think there is something wrong with our code here.
So we do get everything right, so let's refresh and let's check out what the problem is.
All right, so the problem is I'm just going to go over the problem one more time.
The problem is, for example, when we go to 48 number of characters, the number of characters is working
perfectly fine.
But when we create and degenerate password, the issue is we see symbols, even though the symbols check
check boxes not checked, we see uppercase, even though uppercase is not checked, we see numbers,
even the numbers is not checked.
So we see all these things.
We print them to the console.
That's not a problem.
It's even a good representation of how the join method convert grabs the items of the from an array
and converts them into a string readable and usable by that by the user.
But the issue is that even though these are not checked, we still see them inside our password.
So there should be something wrong with this.
So this is the include.
Numbers include upper symbols and include uppercase, the character amount, which is right here.
It works perfectly fine, but they include uppercase, include a number and include symbol.
They do not work perfectly fine.
So we are going to go to where we have defined them.
So this part is OK.
So I'm just going to say, OK, and these are not OK.
So we have our constant right here.
It says include uppercase.
So what is the value that the stores is?
It says an uppercase eldard value.
All right, so this what is this upper case element, this upper case element is it has an idea of uppercase.
So let's come into our HTML.
This this is the upper case.
And we can see here that it is a type of checkbox.
So checkboxes, they have a state of checked.
So I think we should not grab the value for this checkbox, so if I go ahead and if I can cancel log
this, I'm not going to cut this video.
I could, like, go ahead and cut it and just like like find the issue off screen and like fix it and
then show you.
But I'm just going to do it like like like the screen is recording.
So let's go ahead and let's see what this is going to give us inside the console.
So for that, I'm going to go ahead.
We have we do have a console lock here.
Right here.
I'm going to comment that out.
Just click on this.
We get on.
We get on each time it says it is on, right, so the value is on why?
Why is it on?
So, uh, hmm, let's grab our upper case element, upper case, not upper case of her case element.
Let's see what this is going to give us.
So it it does give us a check box.
And from this check box, what do we want to get?
We want to we want to be able to check it so we should be able to get the checked state.
So if I change this value to check.
Because it is a check box and now let's go ahead and let's let's get rid of this council, it was nonintuitive
at all.
So now if I click on this.
And now let's increase the number to, I don't know, like twenty seven, so in here we can see we still
have our symbols.
Lower case, lower case is going to be always there.
We have our numbers, but we don't have our upper case.
So it doesn't matter how many times they click, we don't have I don't think we have our uppercase.
But when I click on the upper case now, we get upper case.
So the upper case is working fine and we know that we should not grab the value but the checked state
when they're checked.
So now we should be able to see our password.
OK.
I don't see any numbers, I don't see any symbols and I don't see uppercase.
So now if I click on the numbers, we should be able to see numbers.
If I click on the symbols, we should see lowercase, which is the default.
Of course, we should see numbers and symbols.
And if I click on the case, we see upper.
So this is our lower case.
This is upper case number and symbol.
So I'm just going to test it here as well.
Like multiple times.
We don't have any bugs here, any errors.
So this is going to be it for this lecture and for this chapter.
I think we are done here.
So I'm just going to go ahead and remove these council logs because professionally, we should remove
them.
Do we have any on any other council log here?
I don't think we have.
So this application was not difficult, but we had a lot of interesting concepts and a lot of interesting
ideas.
And I want you guys to have the as much practice as as possible, because as many projects as you create,
those many projects, each of them, each of those projects is going to like teach you something different,
a different way of thinking, a different way of solving bugs or errors or whatever you want to call
them, solving program issues.
That's why this course is like all of our projects and there is like a ton of them.
All right.
This is going to be it for this lecture and this chapter.
I know I've already said that.
I like I like seeing that.
See you guys in the next chapter and have a good one.